README.md, before:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/deepesdl/badge/?version=latest)](https://deepesdl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

# DeepESDL documentation

This repository contains the source files for the DeepESDL documentation.


The current [DeepESDL Documentation is under development](https://deepesdl.github.io/deepesdl-doc/dev/).

## To contribute to the new DeepESDL Documentation:
1. Create new branch based on dev branch. This is your working branch.
2. Add your new content to the dedicated Markdown file. Please make sure, that
   1. you save images in the folder you're working in,
      path: `{folder-name-of-chapter}/img/xxxx.png`
   2. test your changes locally (see info below)
3. When done, create a Pull Request to merge your contributions into the 
   dev-branch. A Brockmann Consult team member will review the changes.


Check the Material for mkdocs 
[documentation](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/) for 
further layout information.

## Building the docs
If you want to run the documentation locally to test your changes:

1. create a python environment with environment_doc.yml   
   `$ conda env create -f environment_doc.yml`
2. run documentation locally: `$ mkdocs serve`



## Building the docs

    $ conda install -c conda-forge mkdocs mkapi

## How to generate the documentation from a cube

To generate the overview pages for a datacube, you need to install the 
conda environment specified in environment.yml .

For the deep-esdl public bucket, you need to run 

    $ ./datasetdocgen2.py catalogue --stores deepesdl

It will create a new subfolder called cataloge/deepesdl. Move the files 
that you want to the actual directory docs/datasets. Please make sure, that 
the information is fetched correctly and that the map of coverage 
corresponds to your dataset.

Commit message:

adding comment about building the legacy documentation

README.md, after:

[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/deepesdl/badge/?version=latest)](https://deepesdl.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

# DeepESDL documentation

This repository contains the source files for the DeepESDL documentation.


The current [DeepESDL Documentation is under development](https://deepesdl.github.io/deepesdl-doc/dev/).

## To contribute to the new DeepESDL Documentation:
1. Create new branch based on dev branch. This is your working branch.
2. Add your new content to the dedicated Markdown file. Please make sure, that
   1. you save images in the folder you're working in,
      path: `{folder-name-of-chapter}/img/xxxx.png`
   2. test your changes locally (see info below)
3. When done, create a Pull Request to merge your contributions into the 
   dev-branch. A Brockmann Consult team member will review the changes.


Check the Material for mkdocs 
[documentation](https://squidfunk.github.io/mkdocs-material/setup/) for 
further layout information.

## Building the docs
If you want to run the documentation locally to test your changes:

1. create a python environment with environment_doc.yml   
   `$ conda env create -f environment_doc.yml`
2. run documentation locally: `$ mkdocs serve`



## Building the docs for the legacy documentation (please don't use)

    $ conda install -c conda-forge mkdocs mkapi

## How to generate the documentation from a cube

To generate the overview pages for a datacube, you need to install the 
conda environment specified in environment.yml .

For the deep-esdl public bucket, you need to run 

    $ ./datasetdocgen2.py catalogue --stores deepesdl

It will create a new subfolder called cataloge/deepesdl. Move the files 
that you want to the actual directory docs/datasets. Please make sure, that 
the information is fetched correctly and that the map of coverage 
corresponds to your dataset.
