docs/datasets/LC-1x2160x2160-1-0-0-zarr.md, before:

# Land Cover Map of ESA CCI brokered by CDS

## How to open this dataset in DeepESDL JupyterLab
```python
from xcube.core.store import new_data_store
store = new_data_store("s3", root="deep-esdl-public", storage_options=dict(anon=True))
ds = store.open_data('LC-1x2160x2160-1.0.0.zarr')
```

## Bounding box map

![Bounding box map](LC-1x2160x2160-1-0-0-zarr.png)<br>
<span style="font-size: x-small">Map tiles and data from <a href="http://openstreetmap.org">OpenStreetMap</a>, under <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/copyright">the ODbL</a>.</span>

## Basic information

| Parameter | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Bounding box longitude (°) | -180.0 to 180.00000000000003 |
| Bounding box latitude (°) | -90.0 to 90.00000000000001 |
| Time range | 2010-01-01 to 2020-12-31 |

[Click here for full dataset metadata.](#full-metadata)

## Variable list

Click on a variable name to jump to the variable’s full metadata.

| Variable | Long name | Units |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| [change\_count](#change\_count) | number of class changes | \[none\] |
| [current\_pixel\_state](#current\_pixel\_state) | LC pixel type mask | \[none\] |
| [lat\_bounds](#lat\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |
| [lccs\_class](#lccs\_class) | Land cover class defined in LCCS | \[none\] |
| [lon\_bounds](#lon\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |
| [observation\_count](#observation\_count) | number of valid observations | \[none\] |
| [processed\_flag](#processed\_flag) | LC map processed area flag | \[none\] |
| [time\_bounds](#time\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |

## Full variable metadata

### <a name="change_count"></a>change_count

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| long\_name | number of class changes |
| valid\_max | 100 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="crs"></a>crs

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| i2m | 0\.002777777777778,0\.0,0\.0,\-0\.002777777777778,\-180\.0,90\.0 |
| wkt | GEOGCS\["WGS 84",    DATUM\["World Geodetic System 1984",      SPHEROID\["WGS 84", 6378137\.0, 298\.257223563, AUTHORITY\["EPSG","7030"\]\],      AUTHORITY\["EPSG","6326"\]\],    PRIMEM\["Greenwich", 0\.0, AUTHORITY\["EPSG","8901"\]\],    UNIT\["degree", 0\.017453292519943295\],    AXIS\["Geodetic longitude", EAST\],    AXIS\["Geodetic latitude", NORTH\],    AUTHORITY\["EPSG","4326"\]\] |

### <a name="current_pixel_state"></a>current_pixel_state

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| flag\_meanings | invalid clear\_land clear\_water clear\_snow\_ice cloud cloud\_shadow |
| flag\_values | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| long\_name | LC pixel type mask |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs status\_flag |
| valid\_max | 5 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="lat_bounds"></a>lat_bounds

### <a name="lccs_class"></a>lccs_class

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| ancillary\_variables | processed\_flag current\_pixel\_state observation\_count change\_count |
| flag\_colors | \#ffff64 \#ffff64 \#ffff00 \#aaf0f0 \#dcf064 \#c8c864 \#006400 \#00a000 \#00a000 \#aac800 \#003c00 \#003c00 \#005000 \#285000 \#285000 \#286400 \#788200 \#8ca000 \#be9600 \#966400 \#966400 \#966400 \#ffb432 \#ffdcd2 \#ffebaf \#ffc864 \#ffd278 \#ffebaf \#00785a \#009678 \#00dc82 \#c31400 \#fff5d7 \#dcdcdc \#fff5d7 \#0046c8 \#ffffff |
| flag\_meanings | no\_data cropland\_rainfed cropland\_rainfed\_herbaceous\_cover cropland\_rainfed\_tree\_or\_shrub\_cover cropland\_irrigated mosaic\_cropland mosaic\_natural\_vegetation tree\_broadleaved\_evergreen\_closed\_to\_open tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_closed\_to\_open tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_closed tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_open tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_closed\_to\_open tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_closed tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_open tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_closed\_to\_open tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_closed tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_open tree\_mixed mosaic\_tree\_and\_shrub mosaic\_herbaceous shrubland shrubland\_evergreen shrubland\_deciduous grassland lichens\_and\_mosses sparse\_vegetation sparse\_tree sparse\_shrub sparse\_herbaceous tree\_cover\_flooded\_fresh\_or\_brakish\_water tree\_cover\_flooded\_saline\_water shrub\_or\_herbaceous\_cover\_flooded urban bare\_areas bare\_areas\_consolidated bare\_areas\_unconsolidated water snow\_and\_ice |
| flag\_values | 0, 10, 11, 12, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 61, 62, 70, 71, 72, 80, 81, 82, 90, 100, 110, 120, 121, 122, 130, 140, 150, 151, 152, 153, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 201, 202, 210, 220 |
| long\_name | Land cover class defined in LCCS |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs |
| valid\_max | 220 |
| valid\_min | 1 |

### <a name="lon_bounds"></a>lon_bounds

### <a name="observation_count"></a>observation_count

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| long\_name | number of valid observations |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs number\_of\_observations |
| valid\_max | 32767 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="processed_flag"></a>processed_flag

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| flag\_meanings | not\_processed processed |
| flag\_values | 0, 1 |
| long\_name | LC map processed area flag |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs status\_flag |
| valid\_max | 1 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="time_bounds"></a>time_bounds

## <a name="full-metadata"></a>Full dataset metadata

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Conventions | CF\-1\.6 |
| TileSize | 2025:2025 |
| cdm\_data\_type | grid |
| comment |  |
| contact | [https://www\.ecmwf\.int/en/about/contact\-us/get\-support](https://www.ecmwf.int/en/about/contact-us/get-support) |
| creation\_date | 20181130T095431Z |
| creator\_email | landcover\-cci@uclouvain\.be |
| creator\_name | UCLouvain |
| creator\_url | [http://www\.uclouvain\.be/](http://www.uclouvain.be/) |
| geospatial\_lat\_max | 90\.0 |
| geospatial\_lat\_min | \-90\.0 |
| geospatial\_lat\_resolution | 0\.002778 |
| geospatial\_lat\_units | degrees\_north |
| geospatial\_lon\_max | 180 |
| geospatial\_lon\_min | \-180 |
| geospatial\_lon\_resolution | 0\.002778 |
| geospatial\_lon\_units | degrees\_east |
| history | amorgos\-4,0, lc\-sdr\-1\.0, lc\-sr\-1\.0, lc\-classification\-1\.0,lc\-user\-tools\-3\.13,lc\-user\-tools\-4\.3 |
| id | ESACCI\-LC\-L4\-LCCS\-Map\-300m\-P1Y\-2010\-v2\.0\.7cds |
| institution | UCLouvain |
| keywords | land cover classification,satellite,observation |
| keywords\_vocabulary | NASA Global Change Master Directory \(GCMD\) Science Keywords |
| license | ESA CCI Data Policy: free and open access |
| naming\_authority | org\.esa\-cci |
| product\_version | 2\.0\.7cds |
| project | Climate Change Initiative \- European Space Agency |
| references | [http://www\.esa\-landcover\-cci\.org/](http://www.esa-landcover-cci.org/) |
| source | MERIS FR L1B version 5\.05, MERIS RR L1B version 8\.0, SPOT VGT P |
| spatial\_resolution | 300m |
| standard\_name\_vocabulary | NetCDF Climate and Forecast \(CF\) Standard Names version 21 |
| summary | This dataset characterizes the land cover of a particular year \(see time\_coverage\)\. The land cover was derived from the analysis of satellite data time series of the full period\. |
| time\_coverage\_duration | P1Y |
| time\_coverage\_end | 20101231 |
| time\_coverage\_resolution | P1Y |
| time\_coverage\_start | 20100101 |
| title | Land Cover Map of ESA CCI brokered by CDS |
| tracking\_id | 96ac9aca\-1ca7\-45c6\-b4a5\-ab448c692646 |
| type | ESACCI\-LC\-L4\-LCCS\-Map\-300m\-P1Y |

Commit message:

removing baltic sea from documentation and adjusting data access to levels

docs/datasets/LC-1x2160x2160-1-0-0-zarr.md, after:

# Land Cover Map of ESA CCI brokered by CDS

## How to open this dataset in DeepESDL JupyterLab
```python
from xcube.core.store import new_data_store
store = new_data_store("s3", root="deep-esdl-public", storage_options=dict(anon=True))
# The cube is saved as a multilevel cube, the level 0 is the base layer with 
# the highest resolution
ml_dataset = store.open_data('LC-1x2160x2160-1.0.0.levels')
# Chek how many levels are present
ml_dataset.num_levels
# Open dataset at a certain level, here level 0
ds = ml_dataset.get_dataset(0)
```

## Bounding box map

![Bounding box map](LC-1x2160x2160-1-0-0-zarr.png)<br>
<span style="font-size: x-small">Map tiles and data from <a href="http://openstreetmap.org">OpenStreetMap</a>, under <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/copyright">the ODbL</a>.</span>

## Basic information

| Parameter | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Bounding box longitude (°) | -180.0 to 180.00000000000003 |
| Bounding box latitude (°) | -90.0 to 90.00000000000001 |
| Time range | 2010-01-01 to 2020-12-31 |

[Click here for full dataset metadata.](#full-metadata)

## Variable list

Click on a variable name to jump to the variable’s full metadata.

| Variable | Long name | Units |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| [change\_count](#change\_count) | number of class changes | \[none\] |
| [current\_pixel\_state](#current\_pixel\_state) | LC pixel type mask | \[none\] |
| [lat\_bounds](#lat\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |
| [lccs\_class](#lccs\_class) | Land cover class defined in LCCS | \[none\] |
| [lon\_bounds](#lon\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |
| [observation\_count](#observation\_count) | number of valid observations | \[none\] |
| [processed\_flag](#processed\_flag) | LC map processed area flag | \[none\] |
| [time\_bounds](#time\_bounds) | \[none\] | \[none\] |

## Full variable metadata

### <a name="change_count"></a>change_count

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| long\_name | number of class changes |
| valid\_max | 100 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="crs"></a>crs

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| i2m | 0\.002777777777778,0\.0,0\.0,\-0\.002777777777778,\-180\.0,90\.0 |
| wkt | GEOGCS\["WGS 84",    DATUM\["World Geodetic System 1984",      SPHEROID\["WGS 84", 6378137\.0, 298\.257223563, AUTHORITY\["EPSG","7030"\]\],      AUTHORITY\["EPSG","6326"\]\],    PRIMEM\["Greenwich", 0\.0, AUTHORITY\["EPSG","8901"\]\],    UNIT\["degree", 0\.017453292519943295\],    AXIS\["Geodetic longitude", EAST\],    AXIS\["Geodetic latitude", NORTH\],    AUTHORITY\["EPSG","4326"\]\] |

### <a name="current_pixel_state"></a>current_pixel_state

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| flag\_meanings | invalid clear\_land clear\_water clear\_snow\_ice cloud cloud\_shadow |
| flag\_values | 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| long\_name | LC pixel type mask |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs status\_flag |
| valid\_max | 5 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="lat_bounds"></a>lat_bounds

### <a name="lccs_class"></a>lccs_class

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| ancillary\_variables | processed\_flag current\_pixel\_state observation\_count change\_count |
| flag\_colors | \#ffff64 \#ffff64 \#ffff00 \#aaf0f0 \#dcf064 \#c8c864 \#006400 \#00a000 \#00a000 \#aac800 \#003c00 \#003c00 \#005000 \#285000 \#285000 \#286400 \#788200 \#8ca000 \#be9600 \#966400 \#966400 \#966400 \#ffb432 \#ffdcd2 \#ffebaf \#ffc864 \#ffd278 \#ffebaf \#00785a \#009678 \#00dc82 \#c31400 \#fff5d7 \#dcdcdc \#fff5d7 \#0046c8 \#ffffff |
| flag\_meanings | no\_data cropland\_rainfed cropland\_rainfed\_herbaceous\_cover cropland\_rainfed\_tree\_or\_shrub\_cover cropland\_irrigated mosaic\_cropland mosaic\_natural\_vegetation tree\_broadleaved\_evergreen\_closed\_to\_open tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_closed\_to\_open tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_closed tree\_broadleaved\_deciduous\_open tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_closed\_to\_open tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_closed tree\_needleleaved\_evergreen\_open tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_closed\_to\_open tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_closed tree\_needleleaved\_deciduous\_open tree\_mixed mosaic\_tree\_and\_shrub mosaic\_herbaceous shrubland shrubland\_evergreen shrubland\_deciduous grassland lichens\_and\_mosses sparse\_vegetation sparse\_tree sparse\_shrub sparse\_herbaceous tree\_cover\_flooded\_fresh\_or\_brakish\_water tree\_cover\_flooded\_saline\_water shrub\_or\_herbaceous\_cover\_flooded urban bare\_areas bare\_areas\_consolidated bare\_areas\_unconsolidated water snow\_and\_ice |
| flag\_values | 0, 10, 11, 12, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 61, 62, 70, 71, 72, 80, 81, 82, 90, 100, 110, 120, 121, 122, 130, 140, 150, 151, 152, 153, 160, 170, 180, 190, 200, 201, 202, 210, 220 |
| long\_name | Land cover class defined in LCCS |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs |
| valid\_max | 220 |
| valid\_min | 1 |

### <a name="lon_bounds"></a>lon_bounds

### <a name="observation_count"></a>observation_count

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| long\_name | number of valid observations |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs number\_of\_observations |
| valid\_max | 32767 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="processed_flag"></a>processed_flag

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| flag\_meanings | not\_processed processed |
| flag\_values | 0, 1 |
| long\_name | LC map processed area flag |
| standard\_name | land\_cover\_lccs status\_flag |
| valid\_max | 1 |
| valid\_min | 0 |

### <a name="time_bounds"></a>time_bounds

## <a name="full-metadata"></a>Full dataset metadata

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Conventions | CF\-1\.6 |
| TileSize | 2025:2025 |
| cdm\_data\_type | grid |
| comment |  |
| contact | [https://www\.ecmwf\.int/en/about/contact\-us/get\-support](https://www.ecmwf.int/en/about/contact-us/get-support) |
| creation\_date | 20181130T095431Z |
| creator\_email | landcover\-cci@uclouvain\.be |
| creator\_name | UCLouvain |
| creator\_url | [http://www\.uclouvain\.be/](http://www.uclouvain.be/) |
| geospatial\_lat\_max | 90\.0 |
| geospatial\_lat\_min | \-90\.0 |
| geospatial\_lat\_resolution | 0\.002778 |
| geospatial\_lat\_units | degrees\_north |
| geospatial\_lon\_max | 180 |
| geospatial\_lon\_min | \-180 |
| geospatial\_lon\_resolution | 0\.002778 |
| geospatial\_lon\_units | degrees\_east |
| history | amorgos\-4,0, lc\-sdr\-1\.0, lc\-sr\-1\.0, lc\-classification\-1\.0,lc\-user\-tools\-3\.13,lc\-user\-tools\-4\.3 |
| id | ESACCI\-LC\-L4\-LCCS\-Map\-300m\-P1Y\-2010\-v2\.0\.7cds |
| institution | UCLouvain |
| keywords | land cover classification,satellite,observation |
| keywords\_vocabulary | NASA Global Change Master Directory \(GCMD\) Science Keywords |
| license | ESA CCI Data Policy: free and open access |
| naming\_authority | org\.esa\-cci |
| product\_version | 2\.0\.7cds |
| project | Climate Change Initiative \- European Space Agency |
| references | [http://www\.esa\-landcover\-cci\.org/](http://www.esa-landcover-cci.org/) |
| source | MERIS FR L1B version 5\.05, MERIS RR L1B version 8\.0, SPOT VGT P |
| spatial\_resolution | 300m |
| standard\_name\_vocabulary | NetCDF Climate and Forecast \(CF\) Standard Names version 21 |
| summary | This dataset characterizes the land cover of a particular year \(see time\_coverage\)\. The land cover was derived from the analysis of satellite data time series of the full period\. |
| time\_coverage\_duration | P1Y |
| time\_coverage\_end | 20101231 |
| time\_coverage\_resolution | P1Y |
| time\_coverage\_start | 20100101 |
| title | Land Cover Map of ESA CCI brokered by CDS |
| tracking\_id | 96ac9aca\-1ca7\-45c6\-b4a5\-ab448c692646 |
| type | ESACCI\-LC\-L4\-LCCS\-Map\-300m\-P1Y |
