docs/datasets/ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1-4-0-zarr.md, before:

# BICEP Pools and Fluxes of the Ocean Biological Carbon Pump

## How to open this dataset in DeepESDL JupyterLab
```python
from xcube.core.store import new_data_store
store = new_data_store("s3", root="deep-esdl-public", storage_options=dict(anon=True))
ds = store.open_data('ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1.4.0.zarr')
```

## Bounding box map

![Bounding box map](ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1-4-0-zarr.png)<br>
<span style="font-size: x-small">Map tiles and data from <a href="http://openstreetmap.org">OpenStreetMap</a>, under <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/copyright">the ODbL</a>.</span>

## Basic information

| Parameter | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Bounding box longitude (°) | -180.00001525878906 to 180.00001525878906 |
| Bounding box latitude (°) | -89.99999491138114 to 89.99999491138114 |
| Time range | 1997-09-01 to 2020-12-01 |
| Publisher | DeepESDL Team |

[Click here for full dataset metadata.](#full-metadata)

## Variable list

Click on a variable name to jump to the variable’s full metadata.

| Variable | Long name | Units |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| [C\_microphyto](#C\_microphyto) | Microphytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_nanophyto](#C\_nanophyto) | Nanophytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_phyto](#C\_phyto) | Total Phytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_picophyto](#C\_picophyto) | Picophytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [DOC](#DOC) | Dissolved Organic Carbon | µmol kg^\-1 |
| [EP\_Dunne](#EP\_Dunne) | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [EP\_Henson](#EP\_Henson) | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [EP\_Li](#EP\_Li) | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [PIC](#PIC) | Particulate Inorganic Carbon | µmol C m^\-3 |
| [POC](#POC) | Particulate Organic Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [chl\_a](#chl\_a) | Chlorophyll\-a | mg C m^\-3 |
| [mld](#mld) | Mixed Layer Depth | m |
| [pp](#pp) | Phytoplankton Primary Production | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

## Full variable metadata

### <a name="C_microphyto"></a>C_microphyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Microphytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Microphytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_microphyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_microphytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_nanophyto"></a>C_nanophyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Nanophytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Nanophytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_nanophyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_nanophytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_phyto"></a>C_phyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Total Phytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Total Phytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_phyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_phytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_picophyto"></a>C_picophyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Picophytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Picophytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_picophyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_picophytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="DOC"></a>DOC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Derived from | In\-situ DOC, Ocean Colour, SST, Primary Production, Salinity |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | RdPu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 150 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Dissolved organic carbon estimated using EO data and random forest algorithm |
| long\_name | Dissolved Organic Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | DOC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/DOC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/DOC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | dissolved\_organic\_carbon |
| unit | µmol/kg |
| units | µmol kg^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Dunne"></a>EP_Dunne

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1029/2004gb002390 |
| Derived from | SST, Chl, Primary Production, Z\_eu |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Dunne |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1029/2004gb002390](https://doi.org/10.1029/2004gb002390), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_dunne |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Henson"></a>EP_Henson

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1029/2011gl046735 |
| Derived from | SST, Primary Production |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Henson |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1029/2011gl046735](https://doi.org/10.1029/2011gl046735), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_henson |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Li"></a>EP_Li

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1002/2015gb005314 |
| Derived from | SST, Primary Production |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Li |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1002/2015gb005314](https://doi.org/10.1002/2015gb005314), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_li |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="PIC"></a>PIC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 0\.001 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Particulate Inorganic Carbon |
| long\_name | Particulate Inorganic Carbon |
| max | 0\.0015023552358215274 |
| min | 7\.649861515675783e\-05 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | PIC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PIC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PIC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | particulate\_inorganic\_carbon |
| units | µmol C m^\-3 |

### <a name="POC"></a>POC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | plasma |
| color\_value\_max | 600 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Particulate Organic Carbon |
| long\_name | Particulate Organic Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | POC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| reference\(s\) | see https://bicep\-project\.org/Deliverables |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/POC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/POC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | particulate\_organic\_carbon |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="chl_a"></a>chl_a

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | viridis |
| color\_value\_max | 50 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Chlorophyll\-a |
| long\_name | Chlorophyll\-a |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | chl\_a |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_chlorophyll\_a\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="mld"></a>mld

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | viridis |
| color\_value\_max | 500 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Mixed Layer Depth |
| long\_name | Mixed Layer Depth |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | mld |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mixed\_layer\_depth |
| units | m |

### <a name="pp"></a>pp

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Spectral\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 1000 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Phytoplankton Primary Production |
| long\_name | Phytoplankton Primary Production |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | pp |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/69b2c9c6c4714517ba10dab3515e4ee6](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/69b2c9c6c4714517ba10dab3515e4ee6) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/marine\_primary\_production/v4\.2/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/marine_primary_production/v4.2/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | gross\_primary\_production\_of\_carbon |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

## <a name="full-metadata"></a>Full dataset metadata

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Conventions | CF\-1\.10 |
| acknowledgment | All data providers are acknowledged inside each variable |
| contributor\_name | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult GmbH |
| contributor\_url | [https://www\.uni\-leipzig\.de/](https://www.uni-leipzig.de/), [https://www\.brockmann\-consult\.de/](https://www.brockmann-consult.de/) |
| creator\_name | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult GmbH |
| creator\_url | [https://www\.uni\-leipzig\.de/](https://www.uni-leipzig.de/), [https://www\.brockmann\-consult\.de/](https://www.brockmann-consult.de/) |
| date\_modified | 2023\-04\-05 12:02:59\.047482 |
| geospatial\_lat\_max | 89\.95832824707031 |
| geospatial\_lat\_min | \-89\.95832824707031 |
| geospatial\_lat\_resolution | 0\.0833282470703125 |
| geospatial\_lon\_max | 179\.95834350585938 |
| geospatial\_lon\_min | \-179\.95834350585938 |
| geospatial\_lon\_resolution | 0\.083343505859375 |
| id | ocean\-1M\-9km\-1x1080x1080\-v1\.4\.0\.zarr |
| license | Terms and conditions of the DeepESDL data distribution |
| project | DeepESDL |
| publisher\_name | DeepESDL Team |
| publisher\_url | [https://www\.earthsystemdatalab\.net/](https://www.earthsystemdatalab.net/) |
| time\_coverage\_end | 2020\-12\-01T00:00:00\.000000000 |
| time\_coverage\_start | 1997\-09\-01T00:00:00\.000000000 |
| title | BICEP Pools and Fluxes of the Ocean Biological Carbon Pump |

Commit message:

removing baltic sea from documentation and adjusting data access to levels

docs/datasets/ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1-4-0-zarr.md, after:

# BICEP Pools and Fluxes of the Ocean Biological Carbon Pump

## How to open this dataset in DeepESDL JupyterLab
```python
from xcube.core.store import new_data_store
store = new_data_store("s3", root="deep-esdl-public", storage_options=dict(anon=True))
# The cube is saved as a multilevel cube, the level 0 is the base layer with 
# the highest resolution
ml_dataset = store.open_data('ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1.4.0.levels')
# Chek how many levels are present
ml_dataset.num_levels
# Open dataset at a certain level, here level 0
ds = ml_dataset.get_dataset(0)
```

## Bounding box map

![Bounding box map](ocean-1M-9km-1x1080x1080-1-4-0-zarr.png)<br>
<span style="font-size: x-small">Map tiles and data from <a href="http://openstreetmap.org">OpenStreetMap</a>, under <a href="http://www.openstreetmap.org/copyright">the ODbL</a>.</span>

## Basic information

| Parameter | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Bounding box longitude (°) | -180.00001525878906 to 180.00001525878906 |
| Bounding box latitude (°) | -89.99999491138114 to 89.99999491138114 |
| Time range | 1997-09-01 to 2020-12-01 |
| Publisher | DeepESDL Team |

[Click here for full dataset metadata.](#full-metadata)

## Variable list

Click on a variable name to jump to the variable’s full metadata.

| Variable | Long name | Units |
| ---- | ---- | ---- |
| [C\_microphyto](#C\_microphyto) | Microphytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_nanophyto](#C\_nanophyto) | Nanophytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_phyto](#C\_phyto) | Total Phytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [C\_picophyto](#C\_picophyto) | Picophytoplankton Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [DOC](#DOC) | Dissolved Organic Carbon | µmol kg^\-1 |
| [EP\_Dunne](#EP\_Dunne) | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [EP\_Henson](#EP\_Henson) | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [EP\_Li](#EP\_Li) | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |
| [PIC](#PIC) | Particulate Inorganic Carbon | µmol C m^\-3 |
| [POC](#POC) | Particulate Organic Carbon | mg C m^\-3 |
| [chl\_a](#chl\_a) | Chlorophyll\-a | mg C m^\-3 |
| [mld](#mld) | Mixed Layer Depth | m |
| [pp](#pp) | Phytoplankton Primary Production | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

## Full variable metadata

### <a name="C_microphyto"></a>C_microphyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Microphytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Microphytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_microphyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_microphytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_nanophyto"></a>C_nanophyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Nanophytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Nanophytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_nanophyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_nanophytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_phyto"></a>C_phyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Total Phytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Total Phytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_phyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_phytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="C_picophyto"></a>C_picophyto

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | YlGnBu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 200 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Picophytoplankton Carbon in Sea Water |
| long\_name | Picophytoplankton Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | C\_picophyto |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_picophytoplankton\_expressed\_as\_carbon\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="DOC"></a>DOC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Derived from | In\-situ DOC, Ocean Colour, SST, Primary Production, Salinity |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | RdPu\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 150 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Dissolved organic carbon estimated using EO data and random forest algorithm |
| long\_name | Dissolved Organic Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | DOC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/DOC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/DOC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | dissolved\_organic\_carbon |
| unit | µmol/kg |
| units | µmol kg^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Dunne"></a>EP_Dunne

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1029/2004gb002390 |
| Derived from | SST, Chl, Primary Production, Z\_eu |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Dunne et al 2005 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Dunne |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1029/2004gb002390](https://doi.org/10.1029/2004gb002390), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_dunne |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Henson"></a>EP_Henson

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1029/2011gl046735 |
| Derived from | SST, Primary Production |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Henson et al 2011 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Henson |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1029/2011gl046735](https://doi.org/10.1029/2011gl046735), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_henson |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="EP_Li"></a>EP_Li

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Algorithm description DOI | 10\.1002/2015gb005314 |
| Derived from | SST, Primary Production |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues |
| color\_value\_max | 300 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| data\_bins | 3954469 |
| data\_maximum | 0\.0 |
| data\_minimum | 0\.0 |
| description | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 |
| long\_name | Export Production based on Li et al 2016 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | EP\_Li |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://doi\.org/10\.1002/2015gb005314](https://doi.org/10.1002/2015gb005314), [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/a6fc730d88fd4935b59d64903715d891) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic\_export\_production/v1\.0/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/oceanic_export_production/v1.0/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | export\_production\_li |
| unit | mg C m\-2 d\-1 |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

### <a name="PIC"></a>PIC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Blues\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 0\.001 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Particulate Inorganic Carbon |
| long\_name | Particulate Inorganic Carbon |
| max | 0\.0015023552358215274 |
| min | 7\.649861515675783e\-05 |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | PIC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PIC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PIC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | particulate\_inorganic\_carbon |
| units | µmol C m^\-3 |

### <a name="POC"></a>POC

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | plasma |
| color\_value\_max | 600 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Particulate Organic Carbon |
| long\_name | Particulate Organic Carbon |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | POC |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| reference\(s\) | see https://bicep\-project\.org/Deliverables |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/POC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/POC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | particulate\_organic\_carbon |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="chl_a"></a>chl_a

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | viridis |
| color\_value\_max | 50 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Chlorophyll\-a |
| long\_name | Chlorophyll\-a |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | chl\_a |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mass\_concentration\_of\_chlorophyll\_a\_in\_sea\_water |
| units | mg C m^\-3 |

### <a name="mld"></a>mld

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | viridis |
| color\_value\_max | 500 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Mixed Layer Depth |
| long\_name | Mixed Layer Depth |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | mld |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| source | [https://rsg\.pml\.ac\.uk/shared\_files/gku/ESA\_animation/PC\_1\-month\_9km/](https://rsg.pml.ac.uk/shared_files/gku/ESA_animation/PC_1-month_9km/) |
| standard\_name | mixed\_layer\_depth |
| units | m |

### <a name="pp"></a>pp

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| acknowledgement | BICEP/NCEO |
| color\_bar\_name | Spectral\_r |
| color\_value\_max | 1000 |
| color\_value\_min | 0 |
| description | Phytoplankton Primary Production |
| long\_name | Phytoplankton Primary Production |
| original\_add\_offset | 0\.0 |
| original\_name | pp |
| original\_scale\_factor | 1\.0 |
| processing\_steps | Gridding nc datasets |
| references | [https://catalogue\.ceda\.ac\.uk/uuid/69b2c9c6c4714517ba10dab3515e4ee6](https://catalogue.ceda.ac.uk/uuid/69b2c9c6c4714517ba10dab3515e4ee6) |
| source | [https://data\.ceda\.ac\.uk/neodc/bicep/data/marine\_primary\_production/v4\.2/monthly/](https://data.ceda.ac.uk/neodc/bicep/data/marine_primary_production/v4.2/monthly/) |
| standard\_name | gross\_primary\_production\_of\_carbon |
| units | mg C m^\-2 d^\-1 |

## <a name="full-metadata"></a>Full dataset metadata

| Field | Value |
| ---- | ---- |
| Conventions | CF\-1\.10 |
| acknowledgment | All data providers are acknowledged inside each variable |
| contributor\_name | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult GmbH |
| contributor\_url | [https://www\.uni\-leipzig\.de/](https://www.uni-leipzig.de/), [https://www\.brockmann\-consult\.de/](https://www.brockmann-consult.de/) |
| creator\_name | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult GmbH |
| creator\_url | [https://www\.uni\-leipzig\.de/](https://www.uni-leipzig.de/), [https://www\.brockmann\-consult\.de/](https://www.brockmann-consult.de/) |
| date\_modified | 2023\-04\-05 12:02:59\.047482 |
| geospatial\_lat\_max | 89\.95832824707031 |
| geospatial\_lat\_min | \-89\.95832824707031 |
| geospatial\_lat\_resolution | 0\.0833282470703125 |
| geospatial\_lon\_max | 179\.95834350585938 |
| geospatial\_lon\_min | \-179\.95834350585938 |
| geospatial\_lon\_resolution | 0\.083343505859375 |
| id | ocean\-1M\-9km\-1x1080x1080\-v1\.4\.0\.zarr |
| license | Terms and conditions of the DeepESDL data distribution |
| project | DeepESDL |
| publisher\_name | DeepESDL Team |
| publisher\_url | [https://www\.earthsystemdatalab\.net/](https://www.earthsystemdatalab.net/) |
| time\_coverage\_end | 2020\-12\-01T00:00:00\.000000000 |
| time\_coverage\_start | 1997\-09\-01T00:00:00\.000000000 |
| title | BICEP Pools and Fluxes of the Ocean Biological Carbon Pump |
