docs/references/events.md, before:

# Events

## Conferences

| Date     | Event Name                                                                        | Title                                                                                                                     |
|:---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | DeepESDL - platform for Earth Science research                                                                            |
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | DeepESDL Demo Open Earth Forum                                                              |
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | Constant exposition of the physical lexcube at ESA booth                                                                  |
| Apr 2025 | EGU 2025                                                                          | DeepESDL at ESA booth                                                                                                     |
| Feb 2025 | 39th Annual AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence                            | ml4xcube: Machine Learning Toolkits for Earth System Data Cubes                                                           |
| Jan 2025 | Stockholm Resilience Centre                                                       | Seeing Earth through AI                                                                                                   |
| Nov 2024 | ZEISS Foundation; Perspective in the Earth System Sciences                        | Regional Decision makers, Mayor of city, Decision board ZEISS foundation, scientist, Jena, Germany                        |
| Nov 2024 | EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                      | Talk at the EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                                                  |
| Nov 2024 | EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                      | Lexcube interactive stand                                                                                                 |
| Jul 2024 | ELLIS/ELISE Workshop on AI4Climate 2024, Valencia, Spain                          | Predicting forest carbon uptake during climate extremes with RecurrentNets and Transformers                               |
| Jul 2024 | IGARSS24, Athens, Greece                                                          | On-demand Earth system data cubes                                                                                         |
| Jul 2024 | Foss4G Europe 2024                                                                | Harnessing Earth's Data: Mastering Earth System Data Cubes                                                                |
| Jun 2024 | IARC 2024, La Jolla, USA                                                          | Earth Surface Impacts of Hydrological Extremes along Global Atmospheric River Networks                                    |
| Jun 2024 | EARSeL, Manchester, UK                                                            | Mapping Ecosystem Conditions Using Multi-Source EO Data Cubes                                                             |
| May 2024 | EuroVis 2024                                                                      | Lexcube: Interactive Visualization of Large Earth System Data Cubes                                                       |
| Apr 2024 | EGU 2024                                                                          | Lexcube for Jupyter: Interactive Earth System Data Cube Visualization in Jupyter Notebooks                                |
| Nov 2023 | SciCon 2023: Forest under pressure                                                | Young scholars, Hainich, Germany                                                                                          |
| Nov 2023 | ZEISS Foundation; Perspective in the Earth System Sciences                        | Regional Decision makers, Mayor of city, Decision board ZEISS foundation, scientist, Jena, Germany                        |
| Oct 2023 | Open Earth Monitor Global Workshop 2023, Bolzano, Italy                           | Integrated data-driven analysis of climate, biosphere and socio-economic co-variability: towards a planetary health index |
| Oct 2023 | WCRP Open Science Conference 2023                                                 | Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), Research Communities, Kigali, Rwanda                                      |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | Comparison Analysis of the Climate Extreme in 2022                                                                        |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | DeepESDL – an open platform for research and collaboration in Earth Sciences                                              |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | Lexcube: An Interactive Earth Science Data Cube Visualization                                                             |
| Oct 2022 | NFDI4Earth pilot meeting                                                          | Meeting ESMValTool Pilot follow-up                                                                                        |
| Oct 2022 | ESA Carbon from Space                                                             | Using DeepESDL to Look at Extremes and Vegetation Processes                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Science for society: DTA - Interactive Demo                                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | AI for Earth system science                                                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | xcube – an open-source ecosystem for Earth Observation data cubes                                                         |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Science for society European Commission demo                                                                              |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Earth System Data Lab: lessons learned from a success story                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | New observations and methods in the carbon cycle and opportunities with the ESA Deep ESDL (Earth System Data Laboratory)  |


## General public and policy makers

| Date     | Context                                                            | Audience                                                                                                                                                    |
|:---------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Jun 2025 | Opening Key-Note Lecture at the Data Week Leipzig                  | City Hall of Leipzig / President of Leipzig University and other universities of the region                                                                 |
| Jan 2025 | Studium Universale, City of Leipzig                                | General Public                                                                                                                                              |
| Jan 2025 | Uni Leipzig - Vortrag: Die Welt von oben erkunden                  | General Public                                                                                                                                              |
| Jan 2025 | Data Cubes and AI                                                  | Lecture at the meeting at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and Google Deep Mind                                                                                                                   |
| Oct 2023 | WCRP Open Science Conference 2023                                  | Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), Research Communities, Kigali, Rwanda                                                                        |
| May 2023 | Building Bridges Conference 2023 (Germany, Poland, Czech Republic) | Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Michael Kretschmer, Minister-President of Saxony etc.                                                     |
| Apr 2023 | AI 4 Good Organization                                             | UN AI4Good community, with more than 260 listeners                                                                                                          |
| Feb 2023 | SPINN 2030, Agenda for Science, Saxony, Germany                    | Federal Government of Saxony Michael Kretschmer, Minister-President, Minister of Science, Rectors of all regional Universities and research institutions)   |
| Sep 2022 | 1st German Science Conference for Space, DLR Bonn                  | German policy makers in the space sector, Bundeswehr etc.                                                                                                   |


## Trainings

| Date      | Workshop lead by                                    | Audience                                                                                    |
|:----------|:----------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sep 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Aug 2025  | Brockmann Consult                                   | Project specific DeepESDL training for HEATWISE and AQUATIME                                |
| Jun 2025  | Brockmann Consult                                   | ESRIN Science Hub: EarthCODE training on DeepESDL                                           |
| Jun 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Mar 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Oct 2024  | University of Leipzig  @Fremantle, Perth, Australia | ISPRS TCIV 2024 Tutorial: Uncovering Earth System Dynamics with multivariate EO Data and AI |
| May 2024  | Brockmann Consult, University of Leipzig @ESRIN     | University of Edinburgh                                                                     |

Commit message:

add success stories, tiny fixes and renaming in data section

docs/references/events.md, after:

# Events

The Earth System Data Lab is designed to support researchers by providing advanced tools and resources that streamline
their work and enhance collaboration. To promote awareness and encourage adoption, we actively showcase the platform at
key scientific conferences, where we engage with the research community and demonstrate its capabilities.

We also offer hands-on training sessions tailored to the needs of research groups and collaborative projects, ensuring
users can fully leverage the platform's features in their workflows. In addition, our online webinars provide accessible
opportunities for learning and engagement, with live demonstrations, expert guidance, and interactive Q&A sessions.

Through these activities, we aim to make the platform an integral part of the research ecosystem, empowering 
scientists to work more efficiently and collaboratively.

Take a look below to explore the events we've participated in so far.

## Conferences

| Date     | Event Name                                                                        | Title                                                                                                                     |
|:---------|:----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | DeepESDL - platform for Earth Science research                                                                            |
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | DeepESDL Demo Open Earth Forum                                                              |
| May 2025 | Living Planet Symposium 2025, Vienna                                              | Constant exposition of the physical lexcube at ESA booth                                                                  |
| Apr 2025 | EGU 2025                                                                          | DeepESDL at ESA booth                                                                                                     |
| Feb 2025 | 39th Annual AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence                            | ml4xcube: Machine Learning Toolkits for Earth System Data Cubes                                                           |
| Jan 2025 | Stockholm Resilience Centre                                                       | Seeing Earth through AI                                                                                                   |
| Nov 2024 | ZEISS Foundation; Perspective in the Earth System Sciences                        | Regional Decision makers, Mayor of city, Decision board ZEISS foundation, scientist, Jena, Germany                        |
| Nov 2024 | EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                      | Talk at the EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                                                  |
| Nov 2024 | EC-ESA Joint Earth System Science Initiative                                      | Lexcube interactive stand                                                                                                 |
| Jul 2024 | ELLIS/ELISE Workshop on AI4Climate 2024, Valencia, Spain                          | Predicting forest carbon uptake during climate extremes with RecurrentNets and Transformers                               |
| Jul 2024 | IGARSS24, Athens, Greece                                                          | On-demand Earth system data cubes                                                                                         |
| Jul 2024 | Foss4G Europe 2024                                                                | Harnessing Earth's Data: Mastering Earth System Data Cubes                                                                |
| Jun 2024 | IARC 2024, La Jolla, USA                                                          | Earth Surface Impacts of Hydrological Extremes along Global Atmospheric River Networks                                    |
| Jun 2024 | EARSeL, Manchester, UK                                                            | Mapping Ecosystem Conditions Using Multi-Source EO Data Cubes                                                             |
| May 2024 | EuroVis 2024                                                                      | Lexcube: Interactive Visualization of Large Earth System Data Cubes                                                       |
| Apr 2024 | EGU 2024                                                                          | Lexcube for Jupyter: Interactive Earth System Data Cube Visualization in Jupyter Notebooks                                |
| Nov 2023 | SciCon 2023: Forest under pressure                                                | Young scholars, Hainich, Germany                                                                                          |
| Nov 2023 | ZEISS Foundation; Perspective in the Earth System Sciences                        | Regional Decision makers, Mayor of city, Decision board ZEISS foundation, scientist, Jena, Germany                        |
| Oct 2023 | Open Earth Monitor Global Workshop 2023, Bolzano, Italy                           | Integrated data-driven analysis of climate, biosphere and socio-economic co-variability: towards a planetary health index |
| Oct 2023 | WCRP Open Science Conference 2023                                                 | Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), Research Communities, Kigali, Rwanda                                      |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | Comparison Analysis of the Climate Extreme in 2022                                                                        |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | DeepESDL – an open platform for research and collaboration in Earth Sciences                                              |
| Apr 2023 | EGU 2023                                                                          | Lexcube: An Interactive Earth Science Data Cube Visualization                                                             |
| Oct 2022 | NFDI4Earth pilot meeting                                                          | Meeting ESMValTool Pilot follow-up                                                                                        |
| Oct 2022 | ESA Carbon from Space                                                             | Using DeepESDL to Look at Extremes and Vegetation Processes                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Science for society: DTA - Interactive Demo                                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | AI for Earth system science                                                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | xcube – an open-source ecosystem for Earth Observation data cubes                                                         |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Science for society European Commission demo                                                                              |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | Earth System Data Lab: lessons learned from a success story                                                               |
| May 2022 | Living Planet Symposium 2022, Bonn                                                | New observations and methods in the carbon cycle and opportunities with the ESA Deep ESDL (Earth System Data Laboratory)  |


## General public and policy makers

| Date     | Context                                                            | Audience                                                                                                                                                    |
|:---------|:-------------------------------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Jun 2025 | Opening Key-Note Lecture at the Data Week Leipzig                  | City Hall of Leipzig / President of Leipzig University and other universities of the region                                                                 |
| Jan 2025 | Studium Universale, City of Leipzig                                | General Public                                                                                                                                              |
| Jan 2025 | Uni Leipzig - Vortrag: Die Welt von oben erkunden                  | General Public                                                                                                                                              |
| Jan 2025 | Data Cubes and AI                                                  | Lecture at the meeting at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and Google Deep Mind                                                                                                                   |
| Oct 2023 | WCRP Open Science Conference 2023                                  | Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA), Research Communities, Kigali, Rwanda                                                                        |
| May 2023 | Building Bridges Conference 2023 (Germany, Poland, Czech Republic) | Petr Fiala, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Michael Kretschmer, Minister-President of Saxony etc.                                                     |
| Apr 2023 | AI 4 Good Organization                                             | UN AI4Good community, with more than 260 listeners                                                                                                          |
| Feb 2023 | SPINN 2030, Agenda for Science, Saxony, Germany                    | Federal Government of Saxony Michael Kretschmer, Minister-President, Minister of Science, Rectors of all regional Universities and research institutions)   |
| Sep 2022 | 1st German Science Conference for Space, DLR Bonn                  | German policy makers in the space sector, Bundeswehr etc.                                                                                                   |


## Trainings

| Date      | Workshop lead by                                    | Audience                                                                                    |
|:----------|:----------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Sep 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Aug 2025  | Brockmann Consult                                   | Project specific DeepESDL training for HEATWISE and AQUATIME                                |
| Jun 2025  | Brockmann Consult                                   | ESRIN Science Hub: EarthCODE training on DeepESDL                                           |
| Jun 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Mar 2025  | University of Leipzig, Brockmann Consult @ESRIN     | ESRIN Science Hub Workshop                                                                  |
| Oct 2024  | University of Leipzig  @Fremantle, Perth, Australia | ISPRS TCIV 2024 Tutorial: Uncovering Earth System Dynamics with multivariate EO Data and AI |
| May 2024  | Brockmann Consult, University of Leipzig @ESRIN     | University of Edinburgh                                                                     |
